What are rooms?

	Rooms are a powerful and user-friendly way to 
	run containers on FreeBSD using jails and ZFS.

	Rooms allow you to take a base operating system image,
	add your own software, customize the configuration, 
	and distribute the resulting combination. This is the main reason why
	Docker has become so popular, and Rooms are very similar
	to Docker in this regard.

	One reason for using containers is to avoid "dependency hell",
	where multiple applications have conflicting requirements. 
	This is ove earlier approaches,
	 like Ubuntu Snappy Apps and PC-BSD PBIs.
	These tools offered a way of distributing graphical applications
	with all of their libraries bundled together so that multiple
	applications could coexist with different library versions.

What does the name mean?

	Jails are nasty places that bad people go.
	Rooms, on the other hand, are neutral containers; a room
	could be a jail cell, a bedroom, a living room, or a
	kitchen.

	The name "room" reflects the fact that the containers
	can be used to provide varying degrees of isolation
	and security. If you want an ultra-secure jail that is
	completely locked down, you can do that. If you want
	a container that has a lot of access to the host
	system, you can do that too.

Why run containers on FreeBSD?

	Why use FreeBSD to run containers, when most of the 
	DevOps crowd is focused on Linux containers?  

	The main reasons are:
	- jobd v.s. systemd as a container manager
	- ease of use of jail(2) v.s. cgroups
	- security of jail(2) v.s. cgroups+apparmor/selinux
	- features of ZFS v.s. Linux filesystems
	- can run Linux containers using the Linuxulator
	
	Many Linux distributions have adopted systemd, which
	is a controversial piece of bloatware that (IMHO)
	has turned Linux a Frankenstein clone of both Windows and Unix.
	On the other hand, FreeBSD has retained a classic 
	Unix look-and-feel, and only needs a little help to 
	improve the usability of containers.
	
Why use rooms instead of ezjail/iocage?

	Rooms are based on jails, so it is fair to ask why the 
	world needs another jail manager. We already have ezjail
	and iocage, isn't that good enough?

	The simple answer is that jails do not solve the same 
	problems that rooms do. Existing jail managers do not:

	* Allow normal user accounts to create jails and
	  ZFS datasets.
	* Offer clean separation between the jail OS and data,
	  and an jail upgrade path that preserves the user's data
	* Provide a mechanism to download pre-built jails
	* Easily allow users to run graphical applications
	  inside a jail.
	* Integrate with jobd
	
Are rooms stable? When can I start using them?

	At this point, Rooms should be considered beta quality 
	software in most regards. There has not been an official
	stable release. The internal structure of the rooms, and
	the format of the configuration files, can all be changed
	without warning, and may require expert-level knowledge
	to upgrade between versions.

	That being said, most of the core features of rooms are
	complete and fairly stable. The only features that are
	likely to see major changes are those related to publishing
	and downloading rooms over the Internet. If you intend to
	publish your own rooms, you should wait for this functionality
	to mature.
